documents/design/actual_barrel_segmentation.md, before:

# Actual barrel segmentation 

*Issue #569*

**Author:**
- Zhiyan Zhou (Frank)

## The Problem
Cluster points from non-ground pointcloud into different groups representing different objects. We can potentially use the information for things like SLAM.
End goal will be separating barrels into individual groups and extracting information such as position, Num of barrels etc.

## Proposed Solution
- Create a subscriber that suscribes to the filtered non-ground data.
- Use the clustering algorithm inside PCL.
- (If necessary)Program a clustering algorithm that take in a pointcloud and returns a clustered pointcloud.
- Visualized clustering result.
- Tune the parameter of the optimal algorithm if necessary.
- Use the clusters to calculate metrics (ex: position, num of barrels/) 
- Publish the metrics to the corresponding topic. 

## Questions & Research
- What are the common clustering algorithms?
- Any known implementations in ROS/C++?
- /igvc-software/documents/research/barrel_detection.md
- https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6338962/pdf/sensors-19-00172.pdf

## Overall Scope

### Affected Packages
- /igvc-software/igvc_perception/src/pointcloud_filter/

### Schedule

Subtask 1 (12/24/2019): Program a subscriber that subscribes pointcloud data.

Subtask 2 (2-3 week into 2019 Spring): Use the clustering algorithm inside PCL to cluster points.

Subtask 3 (/): (If necessary)Go over the paper listed: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6338962/pdf/sensors-19-00172.pdf

Subtask 4 (/): (If necessary) Implement a DBSCAN algorithm 

Subtask 5 (/): (If necessary) Test the original DBSCAN algorithm under a known distance

Subtask 6 (/): (If necessary) Work on Auto Hyperparameter Tuning. 

Subtask 7 (3-4 weeks into 2019 Spring): Test and tune the algorithm under simulated data.

Commit message:

Update actual barrel segmentation: Add short description on the clustering algorithm

documents/design/actual_barrel_segmentation.md, after:

# Actual barrel segmentation 

*Issue #569*

**Author:**
- Zhiyan Zhou (Frank)

## The Problem
Cluster points from non-ground pointcloud into different groups representing different objects. We can potentially use the information for things like SLAM.
End goal will be separating barrels into individual groups and extracting information such as position, Num of barrels etc.

## Proposed Solution
- Create a subscriber that suscribes to the filtered non-ground data.
- Use the clustering algorithm inside PCL.
- (If necessary)Program a clustering algorithm that take in a pointcloud and returns a clustered pointcloud.
- Both clustering algorithm is based on the same general idea. You pick a point in a pointcloud and get all the point within a certain radius. Repeat the last process recursively with all the points inside the radius are processed. This finish the segmentation of a cluster. After this, you pick another point and repeat this process. 
- Visualized clustering result.
- Tune the parameter of the optimal algorithm if necessary.
- Use the clusters to calculate metrics (ex: position, num of barrels/) 
- Publish the metrics to the corresponding topic. 

## Questions & Research
- What are the common clustering algorithms?
- Any known implementations in ROS/C++?
- /igvc-software/documents/research/barrel_detection.md
- https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6338962/pdf/sensors-19-00172.pdf

## Overall Scope

### Affected Packages
- /igvc-software/igvc_perception/src/pointcloud_filter/

### Schedule

Subtask 1 (12/24/2019): Program a subscriber that subscribes pointcloud data.

Subtask 2 (2-3 week into 2019 Spring): Use the clustering algorithm inside PCL to cluster points.

Subtask 3 (/): (If necessary)Go over the paper listed: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6338962/pdf/sensors-19-00172.pdf

Subtask 4 (/): (If necessary) Implement a DBSCAN algorithm 

Subtask 5 (/): (If necessary) Test the original DBSCAN algorithm under a known distance

Subtask 6 (/): (If necessary) Work on Auto Hyperparameter Tuning. 

Subtask 7 (3-4 weeks into 2019 Spring): Test and tune the algorithm under simulated data.
