igvc_perception/src/multiclass_segmentation/README.md, before:

# Multiclass Semantic Segmentation System

Using transfer learning, we can simultaneously classify lines and barrels in images. A U-Net with a pretrained EfficientNet encoder performs multiclass semantic segmentation, classifying the pixels in each image as a line, barrel, or neither. This system uses the [Catalyst](https://github.com/catalyst-team/catalyst) and [Segmentation Models PyTorch](https://github.com/qubvel/segmentation_models.pytorch) libraries. 

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/suhacker1/igvc-software/blob/multiclass_segmentation/igvc_perception/src/multiclass_segmentation/model_prediction.png">
</p>

## Folder Structure 
```
multiclass_segmentation
├── config
│   └── igvc.yaml
├── data_utils
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── data_loaders.py
│   ├── make_dataset.py
│   ├── segmentation_dataset.py
│   └── split_data.py
├── example
│   └── model_prediction.png
├── jupyter_notebook
│   ├── UNetWithEfficientNet.ipynb
│   └── UNetWithEfficientNet.pdf
├── train_utils
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── get_args.py
│   ├── helper_operations.py
│   └── save.py
├── .gitignore
├── README.md
├── __init__.py
├── requirements.txt
└── train.py
```
+ **UNetWithEfficientNet.ipynb**: implements the training and testing of the neural network in a notebook
+ **UNetWithEfficientNet.pdf**: provides a PDF version of the aforementioned notebook for readability
+ **data_loaders.py**: defines the Torch data loaders
+ **helper_operations.py**: defines multiple operations used for loss and metric calculations
+ **make_dataset.py**: converts folders of images and masks into .npy files
+ **requirements.txt**: lists dependencies
+ **segmentation_dataset.py**: defines the utilized dataset
+ **split_data.py**: splits images and masks into training and testing sets
+ **train.py**: implements, trains, and tests the model

## Build Instructions 

1. Download the dependencies in requirements.txt manually or using `pip install -r requirements.txt`. 
2. Obtain a dataset containing the images (PNGs) and masks (JSONs) [here](https://cloud.robojackets.org/apps/files/?dir=/RoboNav/Software/dataset/robonav_dataset&fileid=351245). Skip steps #3 and #4 if using .npy files.
3. Run `python make_dataset.py -images /path_to_images(png) -masks /path_to_masks(json)`to generate .npy files. Example: `python make_dataset.py -images 'annotations/**/*.png' -masks 'annotations/**/*.json'`
4. Establish train_images.npy, train_masks.npy, test_images.npy, and test_masks.npy files with `python split_data.py -images '/path_to_images.npy' -masks '/path_to_masks.npy'` 
5. Run `python train.py -train_images '/path_to_train_images' -train_masks '/path_to_train_masks' -test_images '/path_to_test_images' -test_masks '/path_to_test_masks'` to train and test the neural network.

## Visualize results
The training result can be visualized with TensorBoard using following commands.
`tensorboard --logdir=content`

## Train a model using Google Colab
You can alternatively use a google colab to train your model. Here is a brief instruction about setting up google colab environment.
1. First visit to [Google Colaboratory](https://colab.research.google.com/notebooks/intro.ipynb#recent=true) and upload the **igvc_multinet.ipynb**.
2. Download the required dataset [here](https://cloud.robojackets.org/apps/files/?dir=/RoboNav/Software/dataset/robonav_dataset&fileid=351245). 
3. Follow the instruction on the **igvc_multinet.ipynb**

## Archived notebook
If you like to run an old version of jupyter notebook, please follor the instruction below.
Alternatively, download **UNetWithEfficientNet.ipynb**, and run it in [Google Colaboratory](https://colab.research.google.com/notebooks/intro.ipynb#recent=true) or a local Jupyter environment.

Commit message:

Feat/multiclass resize (#893)
* Added resizing functionality and main functions

* updated documentation

* Added support for resizing images

* Added a few examples

* pep8 fixes

* more pep8 fixes

igvc_perception/src/multiclass_segmentation/README.md, after:

# Multiclass Semantic Segmentation System

Using transfer learning, we can simultaneously classify lines and barrels in images. A U-Net with a pretrained EfficientNet encoder performs multiclass semantic segmentation, classifying the pixels in each image as a line, barrel, or neither. This system uses the [Catalyst](https://github.com/catalyst-team/catalyst) and [Segmentation Models PyTorch](https://github.com/qubvel/segmentation_models.pytorch) libraries. 

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/suhacker1/igvc-software/blob/multiclass_segmentation/igvc_perception/src/multiclass_segmentation/model_prediction.png">
</p>

## Folder Structure 
```
multiclass_segmentation
├── config
│   └── igvc.yaml
├── data_utils
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── data_loaders.py
│   ├── make_dataset.py
│   ├── segmentation_dataset.py
│   └── split_data.py
├── example
│   └── model_prediction.png
├── jupyter_notebook
│   ├── UNetWithEfficientNet.ipynb
│   └── UNetWithEfficientNet.pdf
├── train_utils
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── get_args.py
│   ├── helper_operations.py
│   └── save.py
├── .gitignore
├── README.md
├── __init__.py
├── requirements.txt
└── train.py
```
+ **UNetWithEfficientNet.ipynb**: implements the training and testing of the neural network in a notebook
+ **UNetWithEfficientNet.pdf**: provides a PDF version of the aforementioned notebook for readability
+ **data_loaders.py**: defines the Torch data loaders
+ **helper_operations.py**: defines multiple operations used for loss and metric calculations
+ **make_dataset.py**: converts folders of images and masks into .npy files
+ **requirements.txt**: lists dependencies
+ **segmentation_dataset.py**: defines the utilized dataset
+ **split_data.py**: splits images and masks into training and testing sets
+ **train.py**: implements, trains, and tests the model

## Build Instructions 

1. Download the dependencies in requirements.txt manually or using `pip install -r requirements.txt`. 
2. Obtain a dataset containing the images (PNGs) and masks (JSONs) [here](https://cloud.robojackets.org/apps/files/?dir=/RoboNav/Software/dataset/robonav_dataset&fileid=351245). Skip steps #3 and #4 if using .npy files.
3. Run `python make_dataset.py -images /path_to_images(png) -masks /path_to_masks(json)`to generate .npy files. Example: `python make_dataset.py -images 'annotations/**/*.png' -masks 'annotations/**/*.json'`
4. Establish train_images.npy, train_masks.npy, test_images.npy, and test_masks.npy files with `python split_data.py -images '/path_to_images.npy' -masks '/path_to_masks.npy'` 
5. Run `python train.py -train_images '/path_to_train_images' -train_masks '/path_to_train_masks' -test_images '/path_to_test_images' -test_masks '/path_to_test_masks'` to train and test the neural network.

## Visualize results
The training result can be visualized with TensorBoard using following commands.
`tensorboard --logdir=content`

## Train a model using Google Colab
You can alternatively use a google colab to train your model. Here is a brief instruction about setting up google colab environment.
1. First visit to [Google Colaboratory](https://colab.research.google.com/notebooks/intro.ipynb#recent=true) and upload the **igvc_multinet.ipynb**.
2. Download the required dataset [here](https://cloud.robojackets.org/apps/files/?dir=/RoboNav/Software/dataset/robonav_dataset&fileid=351245). 
3. Follow the instruction on the **igvc_multinet.ipynb**

If using your own dataset perform the following steps:

1.  Upload all the images and associated masks to the shared drive. Each mask and its associated image should be in the same directory.
```
├── dataset1
│ ├── 00000000.jpg
│ ├── 00000000.json
│ ├── 00000001.jpg
│ ├── 00000001.json
```

2.  Open the [ConvertImages_SplitData.ipynb](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/15T2XQjBKMh92A3XlsfR-kRX-PFVN9rl4?usp=sharing) Google Colab Notebook and follow the steps to convert your dataset into the appropriate format and create train/test splits.
    
3.  Open the [igvc_multiunet.ipynb](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1bb9TRCNWBgV8-EiqzhjlSQM_yny9DXzt?usp=sharing) Google Colab Notebook and follow the steps to train the network. Make sure to adjust the config file in igvc_perception/src/multiclass_segmentation/config/igvc.yaml for desired training parameters and to specify model save location.
    - Note: Tensorboard may not show anything when launched for the first time so try pressing the refresh button on tensorboard in the top right of the screen.

[Here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/12fkDeWA-QX9LAIS0Aw1wIQsI2FjU26Mr/view?usp=sharing) is a sample model trained on our parking lot dataset. [Linked](https://drive.google.com/file/d/15XqLQEYo7DCPBZ1mF104pXZANsoAQcgQ/view?usp=sharing) [are](https://drive.google.com/file/d/14xmVaKbz2UD9BjD6nQ9DMfI6T7q5s_KJ/view?usp=sharing) [some](https://drive.google.com/file/d/15aQULrV2B4nwYMDFlt4o2d-9xfMlA4IY/view?usp=sharing) [predictions](https://drive.google.com/file/d/15Ii0uRV3lUBy3VlVV2cZUiEeAXNnPMx6/view?usp=sharing) the model made on our dataset.

## Archived notebook
If you like to run an old version of jupyter notebook, please follor the instruction below.
Alternatively, download **UNetWithEfficientNet.ipynb**, and run it in [Google Colaboratory](https://colab.research.google.com/notebooks/intro.ipynb#recent=true) or a local Jupyter environment.
